h1. JRuby Heap Dump Analysis OQL

This library contains an OQL, which has embedded JavaScript objects and functions that wrap the JRuby objects @ThreadContext@ from the Java heap dump, and prints out useful information about the backtrace for each @ThreadContext@ when the heap dump was generated.

This is useful when your Java heap dump is generated upon your application having OOME, and you need to know the backtrace for all of your threads and see what they are doing.

h2. Compatibility

This OQL is tested against JRuby 1.5.6 heap dumps, on NetBeans 7.0.1.

h2. Usage

# Open NetBeans, go to Profile/"Load Heap Dump..." and open your Java heap dump.
# Copy the OQL in the file @threadcontext_caller_backtrace.oql@ to the "OQL Console" and execute.

h2. Useful to Know

* To have your JRuby application genearate a heap dump upon OOME, you may use the following flag:

bq. @-XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError@

* When you are analyzing Java heap dumps (hprof), we have found that, on a Mac, using YourKit (10.0.1) for calculating retained heap size and NetBeans (7.0.1) for executing OQL to be the best experience. If you are live profiling and monitoring a JVM, Visual VM (1.3.3) is very nice. Also, as expected, all of these tools require a significant amount of RAM, depending on your heap dump size.

h2. Contributing

Feel free to enhance the JavaScripts objects and functions if you know of more useful information you can find from within a Java heap dump.

h2. Original Contributors

Stephen Chu, Marques Lee

h2. License

Copyright 2011 ThoughtWorks, Inc.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the “License”);
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an “AS IS” BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.